she was so so present so there and she
was almost vibrating I mean it was that
she wasn't vibrating but it was almost
as seemed as if she was and she kind of
I felt as if I when I got close to her
that you know you were those beings just
sucked right into her world and she did
this by finding a way to be vulnerable
almost empty the body said that it was
possible to pull somebody in with you
she was the one that moved you to move
that way because you weren't
imitating anything you weren't
exploiting anything you would do we were
fulfilling something she had a real gift
of putting her finger on the innards of
a feeling and she was not afraid of
dealing with those dark things in
herself and in people you pull up so
high in the center and when there is no
more lift you go off into space on the
side and it's as though you're being
pulled into the air it's a balance with
movement with movement and then you
would catch that tilt into a contraction
that yes and you needed that stretch so
that the contraction gave it the dark
pull the opposite
it was very interesting that some people
had been tired and nuts and we're very
embarrassed by anything they had to do
physically person really emerged through
the movement she used to do that
Julliard a lot anyway when she would
have people say one and it wasn't from a
deep enough place you know it would be
too much one up here then finally it
would get deeper and deeper from
underneath him a real one you know which
and that's just yeah made the
contraction via exhale right the
important thing is to put the brakes on
as you come around to the front and
whether it's a fist or evoking spewing
forth
it's almost speaking in tongues by now
but it's as you come around you have to
stop the contraction to the front each
time as she comes in before the duet and
you of course you see this
characteristic tilt you feel free to say
see now I tilted so that I ended right
on her knee so that there was a contact
there rather than just a single so you
actually touched and were in front of
her and was the tilt the same I mean
heard it was the torso further over the
torso was further over and the leg
wasn't quite so high I think it's the
kind of thing that if a dancer gets the
concept they'll have to make it up out
of the same moves but it will be very
personal to them to Martha Graham's
legacy continues to inspire us through
the dances technique and memories she
left behind
even after Martha's death a great number
of dancers and a great number of
audience have been drawn to Martha's
work touches such as a universal such a
universal core and every human being
that it can't be denied people feel it
with Martha her life was her work the
work was her life the technique was her
life the technique was her work the
dances were alive the dances where there
was nothing else it was all one package
and that's the way it was every day all
the time